https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-23917 MCOA (#8364)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/export_metrics_ext_endpts.adoc

[#export-metrics-external]
= Exporting metrics to external endpoints for the multicluster observability add-on

> Configure your custom `remoteWrite` configurations to your `PrometheusAgents` resources. Metrics are directly sent by the managed cluster to the external endpoint when you configure your `remoteWrite` configuration. Filter metrics by using relabeling rules. Enhance resiliency during network partitions between your managed and hub clusters for up to two hours.

Reviewer: We should precise that this is an alternative to https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C03A998ETHR/p1763655471769439
Where instead of having the hub forwarding the metrics, this is done directly from the managed clusters, with more configuration possibilities and better resiliency to network partitions.

Author: Why is it important to say that this is an alternative to forwarding to the hub cluster? It is best to present it as is (a task that the user can choose to complete if that is their preference). Is hub cluster forwarding the default behavior? From my perspective, we are highlighting the benefits of exporting metrics. Let me know if it is still unclear.

> To configure an external metrics endpoint, add your custom `remoteWrite` specification to your `PrometheusAgents` resources. When you configure your `remoteWrite` specification, metrics are directly sent by the managed cluster to the external endpoint. Update related multicluster observability add-on configurations by relabeling default metrics. Exporting metrics from your managed cluster helps you improve resiliency during network partitions between your managed and hub clusters for up to two hours.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure an external metrics endpoint, add your custom `remoteWrite` specification to your `PrometheusAgents` resources. When you configure your `remoteWrite` specification, the managed cluster sends metrics directly to the external endpoint.

Update related multicluster observability add-on configurations by relabeling default metrics. Exporting metrics from your managed cluster helps you improve resiliency during network partitions between your managed and hub clusters for up to two hours.
```

Suggestion for active voice

I also think two paragraphs might help with readability here.

*Required access:* Cluster administrator

.Prerequisites

- You have installed and enabled the multicluster observability add-on. For more information, see xref:../observability/obs_enable_mcoa.adoc#enable-mcoa[Enabling the multicluster observability add-on].

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.Procedure

```

[#export-metrics-external]

> = Exporting metrics to external endpoints for the multicluster observability add-on

Reviewer 3: We need a short description:

Why do this?

> 

Reviewer 3: For tech debt, we need to make some changes here:

multicluster observability add-on-- I think we should have coded this?

To configure an external metrics endpoint, add your custom `remoteWrite` specification to your `PrometheusAgents` resources. When you configure your `remoteWrite` specification, the managed cluster sends metrics are directly to the external endpoint.

> Update related multicluster observability add-on configurations by relabeling default metrics. Exporting metrics from your managed cluster helps you improve resiliency during network partitions between your managed and hub clusters for up to two hours.

Reviewer 3: this is the stuff that should be early in the topic.
